---
layout: post
title: Presenting at the University of Chicago
date: 2024-04-22 00:00:00
description: Conference - Stone Center for Research on Wealth Inequality and Mobility UC
---

I will present my working paper with <a href="https://sites.google.com/site/chungeunyoon/">Yoon Chungeun</a> on the Impact of Terrorism on Education: Evidence from the Death of Osama Bin Laden at the <a href="https://harris.uchicago.edu/research-impact/centers-institutes/stone-center">Conference and Summer School of Stone Center for Research on Wealth Inequality and Mobility - University of Chicago</a>.

Abstract:

This paper examines the effect of terrorism on education. We exploit the death of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan and the variation across the birth cohorts and districts exposed to this event. Our analysis consists of two stages: (1) the relationship between two events, the Red Mosque Siege & the death of Bin Laden, and the incidence of terrorist attacks using difference-in-differences; and (2) the causal relationship between terrorist attacks and educational outcomes using the instrumental variable approach. To investigate the first point, we follow 573 tehsils (sub-districts) over 612 months from 1970 to 2020 and identify more than 15,000 terrorism events that took place during that period in the Global Terrorism Database. We also use the population censuses from 1997 and 2017 at the tehsil level to normalize the number of attacks by dividing it by the population of the tehsil. In the second stage, we use the Pakistan Social Living Measurement survey consisting of 3 million observations from 2006 to 2020. We match the survey data with terrorism in two ways. First, we match the year of an attack with schooling years at the district level to instrument the effect of terrorism on education. Second, we count the number of attacks an individual has experienced while of school age and match it with the 2020 PSLM data to operationalize the instrumental variable. The outcomes assessed in this study are categorized into three types: 1) the prevalence of terrorism, 2) schooling outcomes across all datasets, and 3) educational outcomes specifically pertaining to data from the year 2020. Our findings show that his death led to a 50 percent increase in terrorist attacks targeting educational institutions. This surge in attacks caused a reduction in educational attainment, with years of education decreasing by 0.65 and the primary school completion rate dropping by 7.3 percentage points. The negative impact was more severe for girls than boys, high-income households than low-income ones, and higher parent education groups than low-education ones. These findings suggest that the elimination of a terrorist leader can incite retaliatory attacks, which, in turn, detrimentally affect the educational prospects of civilians, with particularly profound effects on youth in affected areas.
